Ok, finally found some time between works council meeting, safety inspection, lunch and, yes, some real work.

Doing a day/night cycle based on the cosmology would require, well, a idea about it. Currently, at least in #insulae, i have not put together something really about it. There is no background story about the origins. There are no stars, no sun nothing what would really matter in this case. 

While I don't sopt players from writing their own stories for RPG, I never approve or disapprove their stories. Also, the "game world" is based on Currently 10 worlds. Every world has 1 to n smaller or bigger islands. The bigger are the continents. But technically exact the same. All is just based on X/Y coordinates with another value, "adress", or "chevron" indicating the world (this is for technical reasons and not exposed to the players). The shape of a world is just flat, not like a globe.

Doing a day/night cycle based on a simulation of the cosmos would require to do some more decisions. How far is world 1 from world 2? How are all worlds arranged? Is there a sun? Are there possible two suns? Or is every world just a little snow globe? Or is a world just a small part of something bigger like in the Truman Show? Or some marble galaxy like in Men in Black?
Could there be another source of light for an entire world?
I don't feel that I can implement a day / night cycle without answering the questions.
The only question somewhat in the direction is regarding gods and daemons. They are just powerfull beeings, getting their might because people belive in them but nothing just on their own. Many believers? Many "points" to release wonders in the worlds. No believers? No power to do anything. In theory, every beeing can achive a god like status if enough people worship them and make donations. And they also can fall back to a "normal" level. Gods and Daemons are basicly from the same source. Their decisions and "theme" is what makes them in the eyes of the mortals good or bad. Oh, and of course the propaganda of the other side :) This is heavily influenced by my personel thoughts, centering mortals, humans, and their actions and decisions and not something Non-touchable Bigger who we can blame for when we misbehave.

When I wanted to have a real simulation, I feel that I had to rework all worlds, reshaping flatland to globes and therefor rework who everything location based things work in my game. So it would be a really big bunch of work.

But there is another topic. More important for me. I want the players to have as much fun as possible without feeling under pressure to be constantly logged in. While you can play the game whenever you want, you only have 5000 action points you can save up. Over a whole day you can get 7200 of them. It is up to the players  if they save up to 5000 and then doing much stuff or if they hanging around every hour.
There are people who have more time in the morning, others just in the evening. Work, Traveling, kids, school... I don't want players to have a disadvantage just because they have to spend half the day looking after their children. Or you can't go from work to the internet to do some actions. Currently the game is designed to allow players to spend as much time they want in the game but depending on the actions they could also spend all 5000 action points in just five minutes. That's what I think fostered a more social community and not one that's only looking for max activity time.

With this in mind, a day night cycle could be interesting but in the end some players would end in a situation where they only could play during day or night cycles. Or the cycles would be so short that they would not benefiting the gameplay in any real part.
